Home X Skip to Main Content Go to Accessibility Accessibility EN বাং Font Size A+ A− Display Monochrome Inverted Big Cursor Highlight Links Highlight Headings Reading Guide Reset Download Screen Reader nobody বাংলা Home Apply My Account Contact us Helpdesk : Please Contact Us (Sunday to Thursday excluding public holidays at 9:00am to 4:00pm) :01320001824, 01320001825, Email: ssaphq@gmail.com. Login Registration To reset your password from your registered mobile, type "PCC PR < >" and send SMS to "26969" in return SMS you will get new password Terms and conditions for obtaining Police Clearance Certificate 1.The applicant must have a passport valid for minimum 3 months. 2. The present address of the applicant must be under the same Metropolitan/District police jurisdiction as permanent or emergency contact address mentioned in the applicant's passport. In case of a foreign passport holder, present address means the address where s/he lived during his/her stay in Bangladesh. 3. In case the applicant's passport does not contain any address, the applicant's present address must be supported by National ID Card, Birth ID Card or local Ward Councillor Certificate attested by Class one gazetted officer A foreign passport holder, residing abroad, seeking police clearance from Bangladesh must get his/her passport attested by a Justice of Peace in his/her country of residence to upload with the application. 4. Bangladeshi nationals applying from abroad must get his/her passport attested by Bangladesh High Commission of his/her present country of residence and upload with the application. A foreign passport holder, residing abroad, seeking police clearance from Bangladesh must get his/her passport attested by a Justice of Peace in his/her country of residence and upload with the application. 5. Police Clearance is issued through this system to only Bangladeshi nationals going or residing abroad and foreign nationals returned abroad after their stay in Bangladesh. 6. Bangladeshi citizens going abroad or expatriates who have issued/re-issued passport from any country other than Bangladesh should upload a scanned copy of the page containing the latest arrival stamp with the application if anyone want to obtain police clearance after arriving in Bangladesh. 7. Expatriate applicants need to upload an Authorization Letter with the application stating the name and National Identity Card number of the person through whom they wish to collect the Police Clearance Certificate. In case of local applicant also the same permission letter should be sent to the collector at the time of acceptance of the certificate. 8. Police Clearance required for employment or any other work within Bangladesh, contact the concerned district DSB office or if the address is in the metropolitan area, then contact the concerned City Special Branch office. Important Link Bangladesh Police a2i - Access to Information BD Police Helpline --> Police Clearance Tutorial --> Tips To know the latest status of your application, please write PCC S followed by your application reference number and send an SMS to 26969. The return SMS will provide you the latest application status. Social/ News /Article পুলিশ ক্লিয়ারেন্স TVC Required Documents 1. Application duly filled in online 2. Bio and address page of Bangladesh passport attested by class one gazetted officer if applied from Bangladesh Or Bio and address page of Bangladesh passport attested by Bangladesh High Commission if applied from abroad Or Bio, address, visa and entry/exit seal pages of foreign passport attested by Justice of Peace of country of present residence. 3. Payment of the fee of 1500/- (one thousand five hundred) taka by Treasury Challan deposited to code (1-7301-0001-2681) through any branch of Sonali Bank/ Bangladesh Bank, or payment online via credit/debit card along with applicable service charges. How to Apply Step 1 Anyone can register to apply for police clearance for own or someone else. Please click here to register Step 2 Registered users please log in to your account, click Apply and fill up the application form properly. Step 3 Please provide the applicant's personal details in first page and present and permanent adddress in second page of the application form. The police clearance will be issued from District or Metropolitan Police under which your present address belong to. Step 4 Please upload scanned copy of all necessary documents. Please avoid uploading unnecessary documents. Step 5 Please confirm the accuracy of your information and review if necessary by going back. Submit finally when you are sure. You cannot edit the application once you finally submit it. Step 6 Please follow the instructions to pay the application fee to complete submission of the application. ধাপ : ৭ চালানের মূল কপিটি আপলোড করার পূর্বে অবশ্যই এর উপর এপ্লিকেশন রেফারেন্স নম্বরটি লিখে দিন। অন্যথায় আপনার পেমেন্টটি গ্রহণযোগ্য হবেনা এবং আবেদনটি বাতিল বলে গন্য হবে। --> Apply Now Copyright © 2016 all rights reserved by Bangladesh Police . Maintained by Perky Rabbit Corporation Ltd release 1.0 Set Screen Reader Mode On Copyright © 2016-2026 all rights reserved by Bangladesh Police & a2i . Maintained by Perky Rabbit Corporation Ltd.